external/gpl3/gcc.old/dist/gcc/config/i386/constraints.md, before:

;; Constraint definitions for IA-32 and x86-64.
;; Copyright (C) 2006-2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
;;
;; This file is part of GCC.
;;
;; GCC is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
;; it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
;; the Free Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option)
;; any later version.
;;
;; GCC is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
;; but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
;; MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
;; GNU General Public License for more details.
;;
;; You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
;; along with GCC; see the file COPYING3.  If not see
;; <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

;;; Unused letters:
;;;           H
;;;           h j               z

;; Integer register constraints.
;; It is not necessary to define 'r' here.
(define_register_constraint "R" "LEGACY_REGS"
 "Legacy register---the eight integer registers available on all
  i386 processors (@code{a}, @code{b}, @code{c}, @code{d},
  @code{si}, @code{di}, @code{bp}, @code{sp}).")

(define_register_constraint "q" "TARGET_64BIT ? GENERAL_REGS : Q_REGS"
 "Any register accessible as @code{@var{r}l}.  In 32-bit mode, @code{a},
  @code{b}, @code{c}, and @code{d}; in 64-bit mode, any integer register.")

(define_register_constraint "Q" "Q_REGS"
 "Any register accessible as @code{@var{r}h}: @code{a}, @code{b},
  @code{c}, and @code{d}.")

(define_register_constraint "l" "INDEX_REGS"
 "@internal Any register that can be used as the index in a base+index
  memory access: that is, any general register except the stack pointer.")

(define_register_constraint "a" "AREG"
 "The @code{a} register.")

(define_register_constraint "b" "BREG"
 "The @code{b} register.")

(define_register_constraint "c" "CREG"
 "The @code{c} register.")

(define_register_constraint "d" "DREG"
 "The @code{d} register.")

(define_register_constraint "S" "SIREG"
 "The @code{si} register.")

(define_register_constraint "D" "DIREG"
 "The @code{di} register.")

(define_register_constraint "A" "AD_REGS"
 "The @code{a} and @code{d} registers, as a pair (for instructions
  that return half the result in one and half in the other).")

(define_register_constraint "U" "CLOBBERED_REGS"
 "The call-clobbered integer registers.")

;; Floating-point register constraints.
(define_register_constraint "f"
 "TARGET_80387 || TARGET_FLOAT_RETURNS_IN_80387 ? FLOAT_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "Any 80387 floating-point (stack) register.")

(define_register_constraint "t"
 "TARGET_80387 || TARGET_FLOAT_RETURNS_IN_80387 ? FP_TOP_REG : NO_REGS"
 "Top of 80387 floating-point stack (@code{%st(0)}).")

(define_register_constraint "u"
 "TARGET_80387 || TARGET_FLOAT_RETURNS_IN_80387 ? FP_SECOND_REG : NO_REGS"
 "Second from top of 80387 floating-point stack (@code{%st(1)}).")

(define_register_constraint "Yk" "TARGET_AVX512F ? MASK_EVEX_REGS : NO_REGS"
"@internal Any mask register that can be used as predicate, i.e. k1-k7.")

(define_register_constraint "k" "TARGET_AVX512F ? MASK_REGS : NO_REGS"
"@internal Any mask register.")

;; Vector registers (also used for plain floating point nowadays).
(define_register_constraint "y" "TARGET_MMX ? MMX_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "Any MMX register.")

(define_register_constraint "x" "TARGET_SSE ? SSE_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "Any SSE register.")

(define_register_constraint "v" "TARGET_SSE ? ALL_SSE_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "Any EVEX encodable SSE register (@code{%xmm0-%xmm31}).")

(define_register_constraint "w" "TARGET_MPX ? BND_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Any bound register.")

;; We use the Y prefix to denote any number of conditional register sets:
;;  z	First SSE register.
;;  i	SSE2 inter-unit moves to SSE register enabled
;;  j	SSE2 inter-unit moves from SSE register enabled
;;  m	MMX inter-unit moves to MMX register enabled
;;  n	MMX inter-unit moves from MMX register enabled
;;  a	Integer register when zero extensions with AND are disabled
;;  p	Integer register when TARGET_PARTIAL_REG_STALL is disabled
;;  f	x87 register when 80387 floating point arithmetic is enabled
;;  r	SSE regs not requiring REX prefix when prefixes avoidance is enabled
;;	and all SSE regs otherwise

(define_register_constraint "Yz" "TARGET_SSE ? SSE_FIRST_REG : NO_REGS"
 "First SSE register (@code{%xmm0}).")

(define_register_constraint "Yi"
 "TARGET_SSE2 && TARGET_INTER_UNIT_MOVES_TO_VEC ? ALL_SSE_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Any SSE register, when SSE2 and inter-unit moves to vector registers are enabled.")

(define_register_constraint "Yj"
 "TARGET_SSE2 && TARGET_INTER_UNIT_MOVES_FROM_VEC ? ALL_SSE_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Any SSE register, when SSE2 and inter-unit moves from vector registers are enabled.")

(define_register_constraint "Ym"
 "TARGET_MMX && TARGET_INTER_UNIT_MOVES_TO_VEC ? MMX_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Any MMX register, when inter-unit moves to vector registers are enabled.")

(define_register_constraint "Yn"
 "TARGET_MMX && TARGET_INTER_UNIT_MOVES_FROM_VEC ? MMX_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Any MMX register, when inter-unit moves from vector registers are enabled.")

(define_register_constraint "Yp"
 "TARGET_PARTIAL_REG_STALL ? NO_REGS : GENERAL_REGS"
 "@internal Any integer register when TARGET_PARTIAL_REG_STALL is disabled.")

(define_register_constraint "Ya"
 "TARGET_ZERO_EXTEND_WITH_AND && optimize_function_for_speed_p (cfun)
  ? NO_REGS : GENERAL_REGS"
 "@internal Any integer register when zero extensions with AND are disabled.")

(define_register_constraint "Yf"
 "(ix86_fpmath & FPMATH_387) ? FLOAT_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Any x87 register when 80387 FP arithmetic is enabled.")

;; Yr constraint is meant to be used in noavx contexts only, for VEX and EVEX
;; the lower register numbers need the same instruction sizes as any other.
;; In case Yr constraint is misused, try to limit the damage, by treating
;; it as x constraint in avx mode, not v constraint.
(define_register_constraint "Yr"
 "TARGET_SSE ? ((TARGET_AVOID_4BYTE_PREFIXES && !TARGET_AVX) ? NO_REX_SSE_REGS : SSE_REGS) : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Lower SSE register when avoiding REX prefix and all SSE registers otherwise.")

;; We use the B prefix to denote any number of internal operands:
;;  s  Sibcall memory operand, not valid for TARGET_X32
;;  w  Call memory operand, not valid for TARGET_X32
;;  z  Constant call address operand.
;;  C  SSE constant operand.

(define_constraint "Bs"
  "@internal Sibcall memory operand."
  (and (not (match_test "TARGET_X32"))
       (match_operand 0 "sibcall_memory_operand")))

(define_constraint "Bw"
  "@internal Call memory operand."
  (and (not (match_test "TARGET_X32"))
       (match_operand 0 "memory_operand")))

(define_constraint "Bz"
  "@internal Constant call address operand."
  (match_operand 0 "constant_call_address_operand"))

(define_constraint "BC"
  "@internal SSE constant operand."
  (match_test "standard_sse_constant_p (op)"))

;; Integer constant constraints.
(define_constraint "I"
  "Integer constant in the range 0 @dots{} 31, for 32-bit shifts."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IN_RANGE (ival, 0, 31)")))

(define_constraint "J"
  "Integer constant in the range 0 @dots{} 63, for 64-bit shifts."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IN_RANGE (ival, 0, 63)")))

(define_constraint "K"
  "Signed 8-bit integer constant."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IN_RANGE (ival, -128, 127)")))

(define_constraint "L"
  "@code{0xFF}, @code{0xFFFF} or @code{0xFFFFFFFF}
   for AND as a zero-extending move."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival == 0xff || ival == 0xffff
		    || ival == (HOST_WIDE_INT) 0xffffffff")))

(define_constraint "M"
  "0, 1, 2, or 3 (shifts for the @code{lea} instruction)."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IN_RANGE (ival, 0, 3)")))

(define_constraint "N"
  "Unsigned 8-bit integer constant (for @code{in} and @code{out}
   instructions)."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IN_RANGE (ival, 0, 255)")))

(define_constraint "O"
  "@internal Integer constant in the range 0 @dots{} 127, for 128-bit shifts."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IN_RANGE (ival, 0, 127)")))

;; Floating-point constant constraints.
;; We allow constants even if TARGET_80387 isn't set, because the
;; stack register converter may need to load 0.0 into the function
;; value register (top of stack).
(define_constraint "G"
  "Standard 80387 floating point constant."
  (and (match_code "const_double")
       (match_test "standard_80387_constant_p (op) > 0")))

;; This can theoretically be any mode's CONST0_RTX.
(define_constraint "C"
  "SSE constant zero operand."
  (match_test "standard_sse_constant_p (op) == 1"))

;; Constant-or-symbol-reference constraints.

(define_constraint "e"
  "32-bit signed integer constant, or a symbolic reference known
   to fit that range (for immediate operands in sign-extending x86-64
   instructions)."
  (match_operand 0 "x86_64_immediate_operand"))

;; We use W prefix to denote any number of
;; constant-or-symbol-reference constraints

(define_constraint "We"
  "32-bit signed integer constant, or a symbolic reference known
   to fit that range (for sign-extending conversion operations that
   require non-VOIDmode immediate operands)."
  (and (match_operand 0 "x86_64_immediate_operand")
       (match_test "GET_MODE (op) != VOIDmode")))

(define_constraint "Wz"
  "32-bit unsigned integer constant, or a symbolic reference known
   to fit that range (for zero-extending conversion operations that
   require non-VOIDmode immediate operands)."
  (and (match_operand 0 "x86_64_zext_immediate_operand")
       (match_test "GET_MODE (op) != VOIDmode")))

(define_constraint "Z"
  "32-bit unsigned integer constant, or a symbolic reference known
   to fit that range (for immediate operands in zero-extending x86-64
   instructions)."
  (match_operand 0 "x86_64_zext_immediate_operand"))

;; T prefix is used for different address constraints
;;   v - VSIB address
;;   s - address with no segment register
;;   i - address with no index and no rip
;;   b - address with no base and no rip

(define_address_constraint "Tv"
  "VSIB address operand"
  (match_operand 0 "vsib_address_operand"))

(define_address_constraint "Ts"
  "Address operand without segment register"
  (match_operand 0 "address_no_seg_operand"))

(define_address_constraint "Ti"
  "MPX address operand without index"
  (match_operand 0 "address_mpx_no_index_operand"))

(define_address_constraint "Tb"
  "MPX address operand without base"
  (match_operand 0 "address_mpx_no_base_operand"))

Commit message:

add the spectre mitigation options for x86:
  -mindirect-branch=<choice>
  -mfunction-return=<choice>
  -mindirect-branch-register

the values for 'choice' are "keep" (default, existing behaviour),
"thunk", "thunk-inline", and "thunk-extern".

as taken from the Ubuntu port of these changes in their
ubuntu:gcc-5_5.5.0-8ubuntu1.diff.  i've also included the doc
updates that are missing from ubuntu from gcc itself.


i've tested both i386 and amd64 fairly heavily with these options
enabled in both kernels and userland, atf runs and hundreds of
package builds.

XXX: pullup-8 to gcc/ not gcc.old/

external/gpl3/gcc.old/dist/gcc/config/i386/constraints.md, after:

;; Constraint definitions for IA-32 and x86-64.
;; Copyright (C) 2006-2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
;;
;; This file is part of GCC.
;;
;; GCC is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
;; it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
;; the Free Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option)
;; any later version.
;;
;; GCC is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
;; but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
;; MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
;; GNU General Public License for more details.
;;
;; You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
;; along with GCC; see the file COPYING3.  If not see
;; <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

;;; Unused letters:
;;;           H
;;;           h j               z

;; Integer register constraints.
;; It is not necessary to define 'r' here.
(define_register_constraint "R" "LEGACY_REGS"
 "Legacy register---the eight integer registers available on all
  i386 processors (@code{a}, @code{b}, @code{c}, @code{d},
  @code{si}, @code{di}, @code{bp}, @code{sp}).")

(define_register_constraint "q" "TARGET_64BIT ? GENERAL_REGS : Q_REGS"
 "Any register accessible as @code{@var{r}l}.  In 32-bit mode, @code{a},
  @code{b}, @code{c}, and @code{d}; in 64-bit mode, any integer register.")

(define_register_constraint "Q" "Q_REGS"
 "Any register accessible as @code{@var{r}h}: @code{a}, @code{b},
  @code{c}, and @code{d}.")

(define_register_constraint "l" "INDEX_REGS"
 "@internal Any register that can be used as the index in a base+index
  memory access: that is, any general register except the stack pointer.")

(define_register_constraint "a" "AREG"
 "The @code{a} register.")

(define_register_constraint "b" "BREG"
 "The @code{b} register.")

(define_register_constraint "c" "CREG"
 "The @code{c} register.")

(define_register_constraint "d" "DREG"
 "The @code{d} register.")

(define_register_constraint "S" "SIREG"
 "The @code{si} register.")

(define_register_constraint "D" "DIREG"
 "The @code{di} register.")

(define_register_constraint "A" "AD_REGS"
 "The @code{a} and @code{d} registers, as a pair (for instructions
  that return half the result in one and half in the other).")

(define_register_constraint "U" "CLOBBERED_REGS"
 "The call-clobbered integer registers.")

;; Floating-point register constraints.
(define_register_constraint "f"
 "TARGET_80387 || TARGET_FLOAT_RETURNS_IN_80387 ? FLOAT_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "Any 80387 floating-point (stack) register.")

(define_register_constraint "t"
 "TARGET_80387 || TARGET_FLOAT_RETURNS_IN_80387 ? FP_TOP_REG : NO_REGS"
 "Top of 80387 floating-point stack (@code{%st(0)}).")

(define_register_constraint "u"
 "TARGET_80387 || TARGET_FLOAT_RETURNS_IN_80387 ? FP_SECOND_REG : NO_REGS"
 "Second from top of 80387 floating-point stack (@code{%st(1)}).")

(define_register_constraint "Yk" "TARGET_AVX512F ? MASK_EVEX_REGS : NO_REGS"
"@internal Any mask register that can be used as predicate, i.e. k1-k7.")

(define_register_constraint "k" "TARGET_AVX512F ? MASK_REGS : NO_REGS"
"@internal Any mask register.")

;; Vector registers (also used for plain floating point nowadays).
(define_register_constraint "y" "TARGET_MMX ? MMX_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "Any MMX register.")

(define_register_constraint "x" "TARGET_SSE ? SSE_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "Any SSE register.")

(define_register_constraint "v" "TARGET_SSE ? ALL_SSE_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "Any EVEX encodable SSE register (@code{%xmm0-%xmm31}).")

(define_register_constraint "w" "TARGET_MPX ? BND_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Any bound register.")

;; We use the Y prefix to denote any number of conditional register sets:
;;  z	First SSE register.
;;  i	SSE2 inter-unit moves to SSE register enabled
;;  j	SSE2 inter-unit moves from SSE register enabled
;;  m	MMX inter-unit moves to MMX register enabled
;;  n	MMX inter-unit moves from MMX register enabled
;;  a	Integer register when zero extensions with AND are disabled
;;  p	Integer register when TARGET_PARTIAL_REG_STALL is disabled
;;  f	x87 register when 80387 floating point arithmetic is enabled
;;  r	SSE regs not requiring REX prefix when prefixes avoidance is enabled
;;	and all SSE regs otherwise

(define_register_constraint "Yz" "TARGET_SSE ? SSE_FIRST_REG : NO_REGS"
 "First SSE register (@code{%xmm0}).")

(define_register_constraint "Yi"
 "TARGET_SSE2 && TARGET_INTER_UNIT_MOVES_TO_VEC ? ALL_SSE_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Any SSE register, when SSE2 and inter-unit moves to vector registers are enabled.")

(define_register_constraint "Yj"
 "TARGET_SSE2 && TARGET_INTER_UNIT_MOVES_FROM_VEC ? ALL_SSE_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Any SSE register, when SSE2 and inter-unit moves from vector registers are enabled.")

(define_register_constraint "Ym"
 "TARGET_MMX && TARGET_INTER_UNIT_MOVES_TO_VEC ? MMX_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Any MMX register, when inter-unit moves to vector registers are enabled.")

(define_register_constraint "Yn"
 "TARGET_MMX && TARGET_INTER_UNIT_MOVES_FROM_VEC ? MMX_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Any MMX register, when inter-unit moves from vector registers are enabled.")

(define_register_constraint "Yp"
 "TARGET_PARTIAL_REG_STALL ? NO_REGS : GENERAL_REGS"
 "@internal Any integer register when TARGET_PARTIAL_REG_STALL is disabled.")

(define_register_constraint "Ya"
 "TARGET_ZERO_EXTEND_WITH_AND && optimize_function_for_speed_p (cfun)
  ? NO_REGS : GENERAL_REGS"
 "@internal Any integer register when zero extensions with AND are disabled.")

(define_register_constraint "Yf"
 "(ix86_fpmath & FPMATH_387) ? FLOAT_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Any x87 register when 80387 FP arithmetic is enabled.")

;; Yr constraint is meant to be used in noavx contexts only, for VEX and EVEX
;; the lower register numbers need the same instruction sizes as any other.
;; In case Yr constraint is misused, try to limit the damage, by treating
;; it as x constraint in avx mode, not v constraint.
(define_register_constraint "Yr"
 "TARGET_SSE ? ((TARGET_AVOID_4BYTE_PREFIXES && !TARGET_AVX) ? NO_REX_SSE_REGS : SSE_REGS) : NO_REGS"
 "@internal Lower SSE register when avoiding REX prefix and all SSE registers otherwise.")

;; We use the B prefix to denote any number of internal operands:
;;  s  Sibcall memory operand, not valid for TARGET_X32
;;  w  Call memory operand, not valid for TARGET_X32
;;  z  Constant call address operand.
;;  C  SSE constant operand.

(define_constraint "Bs"
  "@internal Sibcall memory operand."
  (and (not (match_test "ix86_indirect_branch_register"))
       (not (match_test "TARGET_X32"))
       (match_operand 0 "sibcall_memory_operand")))

(define_constraint "Bw"
  "@internal Call memory operand."
  (and (not (match_test "ix86_indirect_branch_register"))
       (not (match_test "TARGET_X32"))
       (match_operand 0 "memory_operand")))

(define_constraint "Bz"
  "@internal Constant call address operand."
  (match_operand 0 "constant_call_address_operand"))

(define_constraint "BC"
  "@internal SSE constant operand."
  (match_test "standard_sse_constant_p (op)"))

;; Integer constant constraints.
(define_constraint "I"
  "Integer constant in the range 0 @dots{} 31, for 32-bit shifts."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IN_RANGE (ival, 0, 31)")))

(define_constraint "J"
  "Integer constant in the range 0 @dots{} 63, for 64-bit shifts."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IN_RANGE (ival, 0, 63)")))

(define_constraint "K"
  "Signed 8-bit integer constant."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IN_RANGE (ival, -128, 127)")))

(define_constraint "L"
  "@code{0xFF}, @code{0xFFFF} or @code{0xFFFFFFFF}
   for AND as a zero-extending move."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival == 0xff || ival == 0xffff
		    || ival == (HOST_WIDE_INT) 0xffffffff")))

(define_constraint "M"
  "0, 1, 2, or 3 (shifts for the @code{lea} instruction)."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IN_RANGE (ival, 0, 3)")))

(define_constraint "N"
  "Unsigned 8-bit integer constant (for @code{in} and @code{out}
   instructions)."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IN_RANGE (ival, 0, 255)")))

(define_constraint "O"
  "@internal Integer constant in the range 0 @dots{} 127, for 128-bit shifts."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IN_RANGE (ival, 0, 127)")))

;; Floating-point constant constraints.
;; We allow constants even if TARGET_80387 isn't set, because the
;; stack register converter may need to load 0.0 into the function
;; value register (top of stack).
(define_constraint "G"
  "Standard 80387 floating point constant."
  (and (match_code "const_double")
       (match_test "standard_80387_constant_p (op) > 0")))

;; This can theoretically be any mode's CONST0_RTX.
(define_constraint "C"
  "SSE constant zero operand."
  (match_test "standard_sse_constant_p (op) == 1"))

;; Constant-or-symbol-reference constraints.

(define_constraint "e"
  "32-bit signed integer constant, or a symbolic reference known
   to fit that range (for immediate operands in sign-extending x86-64
   instructions)."
  (match_operand 0 "x86_64_immediate_operand"))

;; We use W prefix to denote any number of
;; constant-or-symbol-reference constraints

(define_constraint "We"
  "32-bit signed integer constant, or a symbolic reference known
   to fit that range (for sign-extending conversion operations that
   require non-VOIDmode immediate operands)."
  (and (match_operand 0 "x86_64_immediate_operand")
       (match_test "GET_MODE (op) != VOIDmode")))

(define_constraint "Wz"
  "32-bit unsigned integer constant, or a symbolic reference known
   to fit that range (for zero-extending conversion operations that
   require non-VOIDmode immediate operands)."
  (and (match_operand 0 "x86_64_zext_immediate_operand")
       (match_test "GET_MODE (op) != VOIDmode")))

(define_constraint "Z"
  "32-bit unsigned integer constant, or a symbolic reference known
   to fit that range (for immediate operands in zero-extending x86-64
   instructions)."
  (match_operand 0 "x86_64_zext_immediate_operand"))

;; T prefix is used for different address constraints
;;   v - VSIB address
;;   s - address with no segment register
;;   i - address with no index and no rip
;;   b - address with no base and no rip

(define_address_constraint "Tv"
  "VSIB address operand"
  (match_operand 0 "vsib_address_operand"))

(define_address_constraint "Ts"
  "Address operand without segment register"
  (match_operand 0 "address_no_seg_operand"))

(define_address_constraint "Ti"
  "MPX address operand without index"
  (match_operand 0 "address_mpx_no_index_operand"))

(define_address_constraint "Tb"
  "MPX address operand without base"
  (match_operand 0 "address_mpx_no_base_operand"))
